Title: Weeknotes

Weeknotes for the week finishing Friday, 13th February 2026.

As I mentioned [last week]({filename}/Weeknotes/2026-02-06.md),
we're working on OpenPrescribing v2.
We finished a cycle last Friday and will start a cycle next Monday.
This week was a deck-scrubbing week;
time between cycles to tidy up.

We've certainly mixed and matched our terminology.
*Cycle* comes from [Shape Up][];
*deck-scrubbing* from a time when we
thought a nautical metaphor was a good idea
and referred to a cycle as a *voyage*.
Terminology aside,
we were asked to spend three weeks working on a feature,
then show the feature to the Bennett Institute.
I'm really pleased that we did just that, more or less.

In our retro (more mixing and matching our terminology),
we talked about how we'd changed our behaviour to finish the cycle on time.
Not quite:
we did a small amount of work on Monday,
so we also talked about how we wouldn't have changed our behaviour,
had we known.
During the retro,
we talked about how we're going to taper our next cycle
to make the three-week cycle to one-week deck-scrubbing transition easier.

I feel much better prepared for our next cycle.
It's good to start it knowing that we finished our last cycle more or less on time.

This week, I:

* read the Management 101 and Tech Lead chapters in
  [The Manager's Path][], by Camille Fournier
* learned that sequencing and prioritising are different
* started writing another [pitch][1]

Time's up!

[1]: https://basecamp.com/shapeup/1.5-chapter-06
[Shape Up]: https://basecamp.com/shapeup
[The Manager's Path]: https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/the-managers-path/9781491973882/
