Title: Weeknotes
Tags: LLMs

Weeknotes for the week finishing Friday, 10th April 2026.

This week, I:

* Fixed a bug in production.
  The SSL certificate didn't automatically renew.
  It expired, leaving a Cloudflare "Invalid SSL certificate" message in place of OpenPrescribing v2 for about 40 minutes early this morning.
* Started work on a new feature:
  the ability to query by form/route and ingredient in OpenPrescribing v2's backend.
  (Peter added the ability to fetch/ingest dm+d data and to fetch/ingest a mapping from dm+d codes to BNF codes.)
  I didn't finish work on it this week,
  because of the bug in production.
* Finished reading Simon Willison's guide to [Agentic Engineering Patterns][].

## Another bug in production

I fixed a bug in production [last week]({filename}/Weeknotes/2026-04-03.md), too.
I'm not concerned that they exist or that they caused long outages;
not today, anyway.
OpenPrescribing v2 is still beta,
signalled by the subdomain and the banner at the top of the page.[^1]
It takes time to fit together
two reverse proxys (Cloudflare, Nginx),
SSL certificates (Let's Encrypt),
a web server (Gunicorn),
and a web application (Django).
Sometimes, a long time:
it's likely that today's bug
was caused by a change I made [nearly two months]({filename}/Weeknotes/2026-02-20.md) ago
in response to an issue with OpenPrescribing v1.

More than last week,
this week I leaned heavily on [ChatGPT][].
I asked it to suggest reasons for the error, based on the message and code.
I asked it about Dokku and the Let's Encrypt plugin,
because it wasn't clear to me whether the error originated at the system-level or the app-level.
And when the fix we -- yes, ChatGPT *and* me -- agreed on didn't work,
I asked it about Cloudflare's reverse proxy.
At this point, however,
I ignored its suggestions to disable Cloudflare's reverse proxy
and to use DNS-01 rather than HTTP-01,
and instead added a Cloudflare security rule.

Time's up!

[^1]:
  Respectively,
  <https://beta.openprescribing.net/>
  and
  "This is a beta version of a new OpenPrescribing".

[Agentic Engineering Patterns]: https://simonwillison.net/guides/agentic-engineering-patterns/
[ChatGPT]: https://chatgpt.com/
